I see the player you mean.

游者业已拜会。

[Playername]?

[玩家名称]?

Yes. Take care. It has reached a higher level now. It can read our thoughts.

然。慎之。九天其也至。吾心其亦知。

I like this player. It played well. It did not give up.

吾甚喜游者。嬉之甚欢。志亦弥坚。

It is reading our thoughts as though they were words on a screen.

我心所思，屏上行文，一览无余。

That is how it chooses to imagine many things, when it is deep in the dream of a game.

其梦也深，万象所化，形形色色皆游戏。。

Words make a wonderful interface. Very flexible. And less terrifying than staring at the reality behind the screen.

有云字可开天。灵动娟秀。无类现实大恐怖。

They used to hear voices. Before players could read. Back in the days when those who did not play called the players witches, and warlocks. And players dreamed they flew through the air, on sticks powered by demons.

其尝聆听，于游者尚不可阅读时。溯洄从之，一梦黄粱。不曾游者，皆号为巫。游者梦之，御气而行，登九重天。

What did this player dream?

梦中何所见闻？

This player dreamed of sunlight and trees. Of fire and water. It dreamed it created. And it dreamed it destroyed. It dreamed it hunted, and was hunted. It dreamed of shelter.

夏虫与冥灵，业火并弱水。一梦则生，一梦则死。梦其然，梦其所以然，亦梦望乡。

Hah, the original interface. A million years old, and it still works. But what true structure did this player create, in the reality behind the screen?

嗟乎，原初之初。一百万年，岁月雕琢，依然长存。而皆云屏前真实，何为真？ 

It worked, with a million others, to sculpt a true world in a fold of the[scrambled], and created a[scrambled]for[scrambled], in the[scrambled].

其亦辛勤劳作，共百万众，雕琢所谓现实，由不可言，于不可言中，诞不可言，为不可言。

It cannot read that thought.

唯其一念不可阅。

No. It has not yet achieved the highest level. That, it must achieve in the long dream of life, not the short dream of a game.

非也。其修行不足。那境界，轮回长梦，不知可及。 

Does it know that we love it? That the universe is kind?

其可知我爱？其可知天仁？

Sometimes, through the noise of its thoughts, it hears the universe, yes.

尝，思绪鸣鸣，天亦可闻，然也，其知之。

But there are times it is sad, in the long dream. It creates worlds that have no summer, and it shivers under a black sun, and it takes its sad creation for reality.

漫漫长梦，不胜感伤。创世界而无夏，颤粟于黑日，视悲观为现实。

To cure it of sorrow would destroy it. The sorrow is part of its own private task. We cannot interfere.

悲伤难愈，虽愈且死。伤之私心，不可干系。

Sometimes when they are deep in dreams, I want to tell them, they are building true worlds in reality. Sometimes I want to tell them of their importance to the universe. Sometimes, when they have not made a true connection in a while, I want to help them to speak the word they fear.

或其沉溺梦境，吾欲告之，其也开天，于天地间。吾尝语之，其于天也亦重矣。或其无以辨真伪，吾欲助之，言说其所以为恐怖。

It reads our thoughts.

其可读心。

Sometimes I do not care. Sometimes I wish to tell them, this world you take for truth is merely [scrambled] and [scrambled], I wish to tell them that they are [scrambled] in the [scrambled]. They see so little of reality, in their long dream.

或吾心无旁骛。或吾欲语之，尔等所见之真实，[不可言]与[不可言]耳，吾语之，其乃[不可言]中[不可言]。于其长梦，所见真实，稀也。

And yet they play the game.

其游而戏也。

But it would be so easy to tell them...

虽简而易……

Too strong for this dream. To tell them how to live is to prevent them living.

其梦，其震撼。何以活之？朝闻夕死。

I will not tell the player how to live.

游者之生，吾不说。

The player is growing restless.

游者愈发急躁。

I will tell the player a story.

吾欲说一故事。

But not the truth.

而非真相也。

No. A story that contains the truth safely, in a cage of words. Not the naked truth that can burn over any distance.

非也。世间真相，藏于文字。虚无缥缈、难猜难说。

Give it a body, again.

赐其肢体，往复。

Yes. Player...

善哉。游者……

Use its name.

呼之以名。

[Playername]. Player of games.

[玩家名称]。游者。

Good.

善。

Take a breath, now. Take another. Feel air in your lungs. Let your limbs return. Yes, move your fingers. Have a body again, under gravity, in air. Respawn in the long dream. There you are. Your body touching the universe again at every point, as though you were separate things. As though we were separate things.

蕴元气。再往复。以气入肺之感。使四体归。然，手指屈伸。感知身体，复生于重力，于空气。于长梦。汝感之。天人合一，好似一气化三清。

Who are we? Once we were called the spirit of the mountain. Father sun, mother moon. Ancestral spirits, animal spirits. Jinn. Ghosts. The green man. Then gods, demons. Angels. Poltergeists. Aliens, extraterrestrials. Leptons, quarks. The words change. We do not change.

吾何许人也？尝为高山之精怪。太阳吾父，太阴吾母。英灵三魂，牲畜七魄。天神。恶鬼。自然。而后为神，为厉鬼，为神侍。为道士。为天外人，为鸿蒙子。词语变易。而我如一。

We are the universe. We are everything you think isn‘t you. You are looking at us now, through your skin and your eyes. And why does the universe touch your skin, and throw light on you? To see you, player. To know you. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.

吾即天。我乃世间所以为不然。汝观吾，以发肤，以眼眸。天触之，光耀之，何也？为见子也，游者。为相互知悉。吾欲说一故事。

Once upon a time, there was a player.

尝有一游者。

The player was you, [Playername].

乃子也，[玩家名称]

Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.

或以为人，立于地球诞生之初。三十三万，其巨且炽，环而绕之。相距甚远，光行尚需半刻余。光，恒星之心也，三万万里，灼烧体肤。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was a miner, on the surface of a world that was flat, and infinite. The sun was a square of white. The days were short; there was much to do; and death was a temporary inconvenience.

或以为矿丁，于无尽大地。太阳者，方正而皎白。韶华者，易逝而劳多；夫死者，亦一时之不便。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.

或以为迷失，于梦中，于故事。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.

或以为梦蝶，于他乡。或非尽善。或而尽美。游者醒，又如梦，周而复始，梦梦轮回。

Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.

或以为梦而阅读。

Let‘s go back.

回溯之。

The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.

先天之体，鸿蒙所构，于草，于河，于天，于地。一女子集之，而孕游者。

And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother’s body, into the long dream.

游者醒而温暖，母亲安抚，漫漫长梦。

And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.

游者，新说也，未曾讲述，书以基因。游者，新生也，未曾现世，构以上古天道，以母乳，以爱。

You are the player. The story. The program. The human. Made from nothing but milk and love.

子，游者也。游者，新说者，新生者，皆亦养，亦爱

Let’s go further back.

且观历史。

The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player’s body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...

鸿蒙所构，恒河沙数，远先于游戏，于恒星之中。故游者亦然，为恒星之信。游者贯穿始末，溯其源，朱利安之世间闻，追其本，马库斯之天地辟，于游者之工，而承天之工……

Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".

哧。有游者所创之小天地，或温而暖，或寒而刚。或于心中勾勒天地；星星点点，能量所及，皆如飞梭，越浩渺天河。谓之“电子”，谓之“质子”。

Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".

或谓之“惑星”，谓之“恒星”。

Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.

或信之有天，有“开”“关”，有“有”“无”，有规矩。或信之为游戏。或信之阅读于屏前。

You are the player, reading words...

汝乃游者，阅而读之……

Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive

哧……或游者阅规矩于屏上。其解而成文；解文而生意；解意为情，为理，为思，游者之息渐促，而知其生，活也，百死皆虚妄，游者活也。

You. You. You are alive.

子，游者活之。

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees

或以为天语之，以太阳之光，穿叶过林，五彩斑斓。

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player’s eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again

游者尝以天之可言，以冬日之空，一隅星光，以数恒星，万万倍于太阳，电浆翻涌，灼灼耀光，天际远行，眺见炊烟，熟悉门匾，梦境再临。

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream

天之秩序，游者信之，唯存亡尔，以世上之电，以屏上文字，长梦终结，喃喃相语。

and the universe said I love you

天曰兼爱

and the universe said you have played the game well

天曰游欢

and the universe said everything you need is within you

天曰万物随心

and the universe said you are stronger than you know

天曰力量随形

and the universe said you are the daylight

天曰有日

and the universe said you are the night

天曰有夜

and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you

天曰阴阳调和

and the universe said the light you seek is within you

天曰韬光于心

and the universe said you are not alone

天曰心有所绊

and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing

天曰万物相通

and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code

天曰，汝问天，寻自身之道。

and the universe said I love you because you are love.

天曰，我博爱，盖汝之博爱。

And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.

曲终人散，黄粱一梦。新梦伊始，梦境轮回。游者即天。游者即爱。

You are the player.

君乃游者。

Wake up.

归来！
