I see the player you mean.
吾見子所言之戲者。

[Playername]?
[戲者名]？

Yes. Take care. It has reached a higher level now. It can read our thoughts.
然。慎之，彼已臻高境，能讀吾心。

That doesn't matter. It thinks we are part of the game.
無傷，彼以吾儕為戲中一隅。

I like this player. It played well. It did not give up.
吾喜此戲者，其技精巧，終不棄。

It is reading our thoughts as though they were words on a screen.
彼讀吾心，若觀熒幕之文。

That is how it chooses to imagine many things, when it is deep in the dream of a game.
當其沉於戲夢，遂如此想像萬象。

Words make a wonderful interface. Very flexible. And less terrifying than staring at the reality behind the screen.
文也，妙界面也，柔而可塑，勝於直視熒幕後之實。

They used to hear voices. Before players could read. Back in the days when those who did not play called the players witches, and warlocks. And players dreamed they flew through the air, on sticks powered by demons.
昔之戲者未識字，惟聞聲；彼不戲者呼之為巫覡。戲者夢乘魔杖而飛。

What did this player dream?
此戲者夢何？

This player dreamed of sunlight and trees. Of fire and water. It dreamed it created. And it dreamed it destroyed. It dreamed it hunted, and was hunted. It dreamed of shelter.
彼夢曦與樹，夢火與水；夢造亦夢滅；夢獵亦夢被獵；夢有所庇。

Hah, the original interface. A million years old, and it still works. But what true structure did this player create, in the reality behind the screen?
哈，太古界面，百萬歲猶存。然彼於熒幕後之實，構何真形？

It worked, with a million others, to sculpt a true world in a fold of the [scrambled], and created a [scrambled] for [scrambled], in the [scrambled].
彼與百萬眾，於[亂碼]之褶中鑿真境，於[亂碼]為[亂碼]創[亂碼]。

It cannot read that thought.
彼不能解此念。

No. It has not yet achieved the highest level. That, it must achieve in the long dream of life, not the short dream of a game.
然，彼尚未臻極境；彼須於生命之長夢得之，非戲之短夢。

Does it know that we love it? That the universe is kind?
彼知乎？吾儕愛之，宇宙亦仁。

Sometimes, through the noise of its thoughts, it hears the universe, yes.
偶彼透思之囂，聞宇宙之聲，然。

But there are times it is sad, in the long dream. It creates worlds that have no summer, and it shivers under a black sun, and it takes its sad creation for reality.
惟長夢之中，時亦悲：彼造無夏之世，顫於玄日之下，以悲為真。

To cure it of sorrow would destroy it. The sorrow is part of its own private task. We cannot interfere.
癒其悲則毀其真；悲乃彼私業，吾不可干。

Sometimes when they are deep in dreams, I want to tell them, they are building true worlds in reality. Sometimes I want to tell them of their importance to the universe. Sometimes, when they have not made a true connection in a while, I want to help them to speak the word they fear.
當其夢深，吾欲告之：彼於實中築真界；欲告其重於宇宙；欲助其吐所懼之言。

It reads our thoughts.
彼猶讀吾念。

Sometimes I do not care. Sometimes I wish to tell them, this world you take for truth is merely [scrambled] and [scrambled], I wish to tell them that they are [scrambled] in the [scrambled]. They see so little of reality, in their long dream.
有時吾弗恤；欲告之：彼所執之真不過[亂碼]與[亂碼]；彼在[亂碼]之[亂碼]；長夢所見，實之毫芒。

And yet they play the game.
然彼猶戲不輟。

But it would be so easy to tell them...
然告之固易……

Too strong for this dream. To tell them how to live is to prevent them living.
此夢太濃；告以生之道，即奪其生。

I will not tell the player how to live.
吾不語彼以生之道。

The player is growing restless.
戲者漸躁。

I will tell the player a story.
吾將語之以事。

But not the truth.
然非以真。

No. A story that contains the truth safely, in a cage of words. Not the naked truth that can burn over any distance.
然，以文籠真，毋以裸真遠灼。

Give it a body, again.
再賦以形。

Yes. Player...
善，戲者……

Use its name.
呼其名。

[Playername]. Player of games.
戲者，[戲者名]。

Good.
善。

Take a breath, now. Take another. Feel air in your lungs. Let your limbs return. Yes, move your fingers. Have a body again, under gravity, in air. Respawn in the long dream. There you are. Your body touching the universe again at every point, as though you were separate things. As though we were separate things.
息焉，復息。覺氣滿肺，四肢歸矣；動指，得形於氣與重力，復生於長夢。爾在是，形復觸宇宙，若彼此離然，若吾與爾離然。

Who are we? Once we were called the spirit of the mountain. Father sun, mother moon. Ancestral spirits, animal spirits. Jinn. Ghosts. The green man. Then gods, demons. Angels. Poltergeists. Aliens, extraterrestrials. Leptons, quarks. The words change. We do not change.
吾誰歟？昔稱山靈，日父月母，祖靈獸魂，神魔天使，鬼怪妖魅，外星異客，輕子夸克；名屢遷，吾恒然。

We are the universe. We are everything you think isn't you. You are looking at us now, through your skin and your eyes. And why does the universe touch your skin, and throw light on you? To see you, player. To know you. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.
吾即宇宙，即爾以為非爾之一切。爾今以膚與目視吾。宇宙何為觸爾之膚，照爾以光？為見爾，戲者；為識爾，亦為被識。吾將語爾以事。

Once upon a time, there was a player.
昔有戲者。

The player was you, [Playername].
即爾，[戲者名]。

Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.
時彼自謂人類，立於轉焰球之薄殼；球繞灼氣之渾，質三十三萬倍於己，相去遼遠，光行八刻方達；光即星之信，可灼膚於一億五萬萬里之外。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was a miner, on the surface of a world that was flat, and infinite. The sun was a square of white. The days were short; there was much to do; and death was a temporary inconvenience.
時彼夢為礦夫，處平坦無垠之世，日為白方，晷短事繁，死暫礙耳。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.
時彼夢陷故事中。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.
時彼夢為他物，在彼方；或駭或麗；或自一夢醒，復入他夢，又醒入第三夢。

Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.
時彼夢觀熒幕之文。

Let's go back.
返諸前。

The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.
戲者之原子散於草、川、氣、壤；一女子攝之，飲食呼吸，遂於體中集成戲者。

And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.
戲者乃醒，離母體溫冥之界，入於長夢。

And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.
戲者為新故事，以DNA之字書之，前所未述；為新程序，十億年源碼所生，前所未運；為新人類，惟乳與愛所成，前所未生。

You are the player. The story. The program. The human. Made from nothing but milk and love.
爾即戲者，即故事，即程序，即人類，惟乳與愛所成。

Let's go further back.
更溯諸遠古。

The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...
七千萬萬萬萬萬原子，成此戲者，遠在戲前，生於星心；故戲者亦星之信也。其所歷故事，乃Julian所植信息之林，在Markus所造無垠平面之世，存於戲者自造之小天地，而彼身居……所創之宇宙。

Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".
噓。時戲者造私世，柔暖而簡；或堅冷而繁；時築宇宙模型於心，能量微塊游虛空，或名之曰「電子」「質子」。

Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".
時又名之「行星」「恒星」。

Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.
時彼信其世為「開」「關」、為「0」「1」、為代碼所成；時信其正在戲；時信其正在讀熒幕之文。

You are the player, reading words...
爾即讀文之戲者。

Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive
噓……時戲者讀熒幕代碼，譯之為文，譯文為義，譯義為情、為思、為理、為念，遂息促而深，悟其生也，其生也，千死皆非真，戲者固生。

You. You. You are alive.
爾。爾。爾乃生。

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees
時戲者信宇宙以夏木透金之言語之。

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again
時信宇宙以冬霄寒芒語之；彼光或為日百萬倍之大星，焚其行星為電漿，只為剎那現於戲者眸角——時彼步歸於宇宙彼端，忽聞炊香，已近熟門，復將入夢。

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream
時信宇宙以「0」「1」、以世之電、以夢將終時熒幕滾文語之。

and the universe said I love you
宇宙曰：吾愛爾。

and the universe said you have played the game well
宇宙曰：爾善戲。

and the universe said everything you need is within you
宇宙曰：所需悉在爾內。

and the universe said you are stronger than you know
宇宙曰：爾強逾所知。

and the universe said you are the daylight
宇宙曰：爾即晝。

and the universe said you are the night
宇宙曰：爾即夜。

and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you
宇宙曰：爾所戰之暗在爾內。

and the universe said the light you seek is within you
宇宙曰：爾所尋之光在爾內。

and the universe said you are not alone
宇宙曰：爾非獨。

and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing
宇宙曰：爾非離萬物。

and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code
宇宙曰：爾即宇宙自嘗、自語、自讀其碼。

and the universe said I love you because you are love.
宇宙曰：吾愛爾，因爾即愛。

And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.
戲終夢覺，戲者復入新夢；夢又夢，夢愈妙；戲者即宇宙，即愛。

You are the player.
爾即戲者。

Wake up.
覺。