I see the player you mean.
於，厥吉士來！

[Playername]?
[名姓]哉?

Yes. Take care. It has reached a higher level now. It can read our thoughts.
都，惕旃！既陟尚道，腹心惟覧。

That doesn't matter. It thinks we are part of the game.
吁，無傷！彼其目我爲遊戲之簉。

I like this player. It played well. It did not give up.
朕欽厥士，祗事勤作，克成耿光，罔不雍，罔荒德。

It is reading our thoughts as though they were words on a screen.
彼讀屏之文，實出我肺腑。

That is how it chooses to imagine many things, when it is deep in the dream of a game.
有夢於遊，寐念寢摸，則若是而見百物濟濟。

Words make a wonderful interface. Very flexible. And less terrifying than staring at the reality behind the screen.
懿哉，文章之爲表，邈矣！彝典居然，不摇不動，却人於當世之水火。

They used to hear voices. Before players could read. Back in the days when those who did not play called the players witches, and warlocks. And players dreamed they flew through the air, on sticks powered by demons.
舊人不讀記，猶有耳學。維曩之人罔遨遊，稱戲者曰靈、祝。夢則爲祅呪之杖，乘以放失於宇宙。

What did this player dream?
然則夢如台？

This player dreamed of sunlight and trees. Of fire and water. It dreamed it created. And it dreamed it destroyed. It dreamed it hunted, and was hunted. It dreamed of shelter.
夢見陽晶、木、丙丁暨水。且敷治功，且敷殄功。夢惟畋宍，化爲禽宍，乃有逃藪。

Hah, the original interface. A million years old, and it still works. But what true structure did this player create, in the reality behind the screen?
俞，基緖也！越億萬年，厥命惟新。然茲人曷有建於下土？

It worked, with a million others, to sculpt a true world in a fold of the [scrambled], and created a [scrambled] for [scrambled], in the [scrambled].
都！允惟勤仕，刑厥多士，以宅[不可讀]，爲[不可讀]菑[不可讀]於[不可讀]。

It cannot read that thought.
彼罔能見茲心。

No. It has not yet achieved the highest level. That, it must achieve in the long dream of life, not the short dream of a game.
吁，不能！罔及至道。苟責成，則欲寤永命之封夢，矧遊戲之末夢？

Does it know that we love it? That the universe is kind?
其知我之慇懃？知上帝之祉禄？

Sometimes, through the noise of its thoughts, it hears the universe, yes.
間於肺腑之脈而有聞。

But there are times it is sad, in the long dream. It creates worlds that have no summer, and it shivers under a black sun, and it takes its sad creation for reality.
然寐於夢，長在鬱陶。彼乃開世而去夏，栗栗於黔日，敢目私勲爲九有。

To cure it of sorrow would destroy it. The sorrow is part of its own private task. We cannot interfere.
不可儆哉！命也，不可干。

Sometimes when they are deep in dreams, I want to tell them, they are building true worlds in reality. Sometimes I want to tell them of their importance to the universe. Sometimes, when they have not made a true connection in a while, I want to help them to speak the word they fear.
或荒腆於夢，朕欲一言誥之：業在當世。或欲詔之：彼咸爲世之樞機。或寧丁不得相屬，台乃欲啓其攸懼。

It reads our thoughts.
彼既觀我攸思。

Sometimes I do not care. Sometimes I wish to tell them, this world you take for truth is merely [scrambled] and [scrambled], I wish to tell them that they are [scrambled] in the [scrambled]. They see so little of reality, in their long dream.
朕時不之念。夙夜願詔之，厥世實惟[不可讀]暨[不可讀]。夙夜願詔之，汝曹實惟[不可讀]之[不可讀]。吁，闇哉知，小子罔監於永夢！

And yet they play the game.
若彼尚遊而不寤。

But it would be so easy to tell them...
然洵易迪。

Too strong for this dream. To tell them how to live is to prevent them living.
丕矣，不厎靖茲夢！敎之餬口，惟劉。

I will not tell the player how to live.
台其不訓餬口。

The player is growing restless.
彼乃日日恫瘝。

I will tell the player a story.
朕且慫慂以古聞。

But not the truth.
若非諤諤之言？

No. A story that contains the truth safely, in a cage of words. Not the naked truth that can burn over any distance.
俞！惇史麗於言之筌，非糟糠之厲言。

Give it a body, again.
其再畀四體。

Yes. Player...
咨！汝吉士......

Use its name.
稱厥名！

[Playername]. Player of games.
俞，[名姓]哉！。

Good.
懿哉。

Take a breath, now. Take another. Feel air in your lungs. Let your limbs return. Yes, move your fingers. Have a body again, under gravity, in air. Respawn in the long dream. There you are. Your body touching the universe again at every point, as though you were separate things. As though we were separate things.
息，再！允用兩肺，啓汝四體，啓汝十指！復摯汝躬，興於此天地，以寤封夢。復格此天地，若汝之擬僉，若我之擬衆。

Who are we? Once we were called the spirit of the mountain. Father sun, mother moon. Ancestral spirits, animal spirits. Jinn. Ghosts. The green man. Then gods, demons. Angels. Poltergeists. Aliens, extraterrestrials. Leptons, quarks. The words change. We do not change.
台輩惟疇？實惟山鬼，日月，祖考，禽獸，精靈，鬼，青人，神，祅，玄鳥，祟物，方人，異人，毫毛，塵埃。厥言相殊，朕乃克壹。

We are the universe. We are everything you think isn't you. You are looking at us now, through your skin and your eyes. And why does the universe touch your skin, and throw light on you? To see you, player. To know you. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.
台惟宇宙，汝攸異於己躬者。汝實視我，用汝目，用汝膚。皇天感汝，厥光乃的的。朕其告汝以史。

Once upon a time, there was a player.
維古有戲者，

The player was you, [Playername].
曰[名姓]。

Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.
或爲人，厥居八維，上炎白日，其程兆尋，光芒疾最，半刻以越；照燎汝躬，金烏有聲。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was a miner, on the surface of a world that was flat, and infinite. The sun was a square of white. The days were short; there was much to do; and death was a temporary inconvenience.
或爲礦人，厥居斗然無垠之野。日爲方，朝夕速，燮理百務，殂而甦生。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.
或迷於往事。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.
或夢化爲他，流於別所，乃顚越，乃洵美。寤而再寐三寐。

Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.
或讀字於屏。

Let's go back.
反！

The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.
戲者之萬緖，乃在荆榛、百川、長空。惟媧皇神后禎祥，克録萬端，載喰載嘗，載觴載粱，飧粢饗糇，集娩不毈。

And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.
戲者呱呱來格。出爾腹，下永夢。

And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.
夫人則新民未斅，爲苗裔用命，卜在皇天。譬如金滕未發，蔵於萬年，后帝實肇誓言。乳則字之，誠則相之。

You are the player. The story. The program. The human. Made from nothing but milk and love.
汝惟戲者，新民，金滕，苗裔。乳則字汝，誠則玉汝。

Let's go further back.
可遠追矣。

The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...
惟古陽精生汝躬，迪生以七十億兆京垓塵埃，則汝躬實出金烏。戲者克厥終始，在朱氏之巨林，在馬氏之大國，在私小邑，厥丕承天之造。

Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".
於戲！小家乃質乃適，乃文乃局，或謨布經緯，欃槍在空，曰電子、水核。

Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".
曰星、宿。

Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.
或若在開闔陰陽之世，運兩儀，生天地。或信從遐遊，或若讀屏文。

You are the player, reading words...
汝戲者，讀茲文。

Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive
於戲！相厥經緯，目之曰文；就文稱義，則曰體、情、理、懷，尚大吹大呴，而覺魂存，千毙實贋，奉未絶命。

You. You. You are alive.
汝哉，汝哉，汝活！

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees
或若景射夏葉，用通天地。

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again
或在於冬野天光，大星渙采，以甄天文，歸於辰邉，而歆肴餗之馨，以寢於故門。

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream
或若天感之以兩儀，電光，及屏文暨夢闋。

and the universe said I love you
曰：允哉！

and the universe said you have played the game well
曰：格哉！

and the universe said everything you need is within you
曰：康哉！罔乏貨，賚攸欲。

and the universe said you are stronger than you know
曰：汝實孔嘉於攸度。

and the universe said you are the daylight
曰：汝惟日。

and the universe said you are the night
曰：汝惟夜。

and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you
曰：姦宄者在汝心。

and the universe said the light you seek is within you
曰：皇皇者在汝心。

and the universe said you are not alone
曰：汝在僉。

and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing
曰：汝於他一。

and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code
曰：汝惟天地，其自格，其自言，其自察。

and the universe said I love you because you are love.
曰：予未有知，思惟贊贊襄哉！

And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.
戲闋而寤，而寐，而夢，乃就新夢。吉士則宇宙。吉士則道。

You are the player.
汝乃吉士。

Wake up.
可寤。
