I see the player you mean.
我睇见你讲嘅嗰个玩家喇。

[PLAYERNAME]?
[玩家名称]?

Yes. Take care. It has reached a higher level now. It can read our thoughts.
系嘅。要阴住啲。佢已经达到咗更加高嘅境界。佢依家可以读出我哋嘅思想喇。

That doesn't matter. It thinks we are part of the game.
无伤大雅。佢净系觉得我哋系游戏嘅一部分。

I like this player. It played well. It did not give up.
我中意依个玩家。佢玩得好掂，从来都冇试过放弃。

It is reading our thoughts as though they were words on a screen.
佢依家就喺度读紧我哋嘅思想，就好似读紧荧幕上嘅文字一样。

That is how it chooses to imagine many things, when it is deep in the dream of a game.
当佢深陷于游戏之梦嗰阵，佢总系用依种方式嚟想象出林林总总嘅事物。

Words make a wonderful interface. Very flexible. And less terrifying than staring at the reality behind the screen.
文字系一个美妙嘅界面，非常灵活，兼且比直面荧幕背后便嘅事实要好得多多声。

They used to hear voices. Before players could read. Back in the days when those who did not play called the players witches, and warlocks. And players dreamed they flew through the air, on sticks powered by demons.
喺玩家能够读取文字之前，佢哋曾经亦都听见过声音。喺嗰排，冇玩过游戏嘅人将依啲玩家叫做女巫同术士。玩家却梦见佢哋正坐住被恶魔施咗法嘅棍棒，满天飞翔。

What did this player dream?
依个玩家梦见咗啲乜？

This player dreamed of sunlight and trees. Of fire and water. It dreamed it created. And it dreamed it destroyed. It dreamed it hunted, and was hunted. It dreamed of shelter.
佢梦见阳光同树木，梦见烈火同凛水。佢梦见佢创造，亦梦见佢毁灭。佢梦见佢狩猎，亦梦见佢被狩猎。佢梦见咗庇护所。

Hah, the original interface. A million years old, and it still works. But what true structure did this player create, in the reality behind the screen?
哈，啖先系嗰个原始嘅界面。几百万年嘅岁月洗礼并冇令佢失去原先嘅功用。但系喺荧幕后嘅现实中，依个玩家创造咗边啲实实在在嘅嘢？

It worked, with a million others, to sculpt a true world in a fold of the §f§k§a§b, and created a §f§k§a§b for §f§k§a§b, in the §f§k§a§b.
佢勤奋劳作，同千百万同道者一齐，喺在§f§k§a§b嘅皱褶中刻画咗一个真实嘅世界，并且喺§f§k§a§b入便同§f§k§a§b创造咗一个§f§k§a§b。

It cannot read that thought.
它佢仲读唔出嗰种思想。

No. It has not yet achieved the highest level. That, it must achieve in the long dream of life, not the short dream of a game.
系啊。佢仲未达到最高嘅境界。要达到嗰层境界，佢必须喺生命嘅长梦之中求索，而唔系游戏入便嘅黄粱一梦。

Does it know that we love it? That the universe is kind?
佢知唔知我哋爱佢？知唔知依个宇宙系仁慈嘅？

Sometimes, through the noise of its thoughts, it hears the universe, yes.
有时，透过思维嘅杂音，佢可以听到宇宙……冇错。

But there are times it is sad, in the long dream. It creates worlds that have no summer, and it shivers under a black sun, and it takes its sad creation for reality.
但系喺依场漫漫长梦之中，亦有令人伤神嘅时候。佢创造咗冇夏天嘅世界，喺黑色嘅太阳之下打震，并且将佢嗰啲悲伤嘅创造睇成系现实嘅一部分。

To cure it of sorrow would destroy it. The sorrow is part of its own private task. We cannot interfere.
同佢抚慰伤痛可以话会唔衰攞嚟衰。悲伤系佢嘅私人事务，我哋无权干涉。

Sometimes when they are deep in dreams, I want to tell them, they are building true worlds in reality. Sometimes I want to tell them of their importance to the universe. Sometimes, when they have not made a true connection in a while, I want to help them to speak the word they fear.
有时当佢哋沉浸喺梦入便嗰时，我想话畀佢哋知，佢哋喺现实之中创造咗真实嘅世界；我想话畀佢哋知，佢哋对宇宙嚟话有几咁重要。有时候，当佢哋已经有好长一段时间冇建立起真正嘅联络嗰时，我都想帮佢哋讲出佢哋想讲但又唔敢讲嘅嘢。

It reads our thoughts.
佢读出咗我哋嘅思想。

sometimes I do not care. Sometimes I wish to tell them, this world you take for truth is merely §f§k§a§b and §f§k§a§b, I wish to tell them that they are §f§k§a§b in the §f§k§a§b. They see so little of reality, in their long dream.
有时候我唔care。但系有时候我又想话畀佢哋知，依个佢哋自认为真实嘅世界实情只系§f§k§a§b同§f§k§a§b。我想话畀佢哋知，佢哋实情都不过系§f§k§a§b同§f§k§a§b。喺依场长梦之中，佢哋看待现实嘅眼光实在系太短浅喇。

And yet they play the game.
而佢哋依然玩紧依个游戏。

But it would be so easy to tell them...
但系如果想话畀佢哋知嘅话直程系易过借火……

Too strong for this dream. To tell them how to live is to prevent them living.
依个梦太强烈喇，话畀佢哋知点样活着就相当于阻止佢哋活着。

I will not tell the player how to live.
我唔会话过佢知嘅。

The player is growing restless.
嗰个玩家正变得焦躁不安。

I will tell the player a story.
我会同佢讲个故事。

But not the truth.
而唔系真相。

No. A story that contains the truth safely, in a cage of words. Not the naked truth that can burn over any distance.
冇错。系一个将真相密密实实啖囚禁起身嘅文字牢笼，而唔系隔到冇雷公咁远都仲可以刺痛人心嘅、冇遮冇掩嘅真相。

Give it a body, again.
赋予佢主体——再一次。

Yes. Player...
好，玩家……

Use its name.
叫佢嘅名。

[PLAYERNAME]. Player of games.
[玩家名称]，游戏嘅玩家。

Good.
就系啖。

Take a breath, now. Take another. Feel air in your lungs. Let your limbs return. Yes, move your fingers. Have a body again, under gravity, in air. Respawn in the long dream. There you are. Your body touching the universe again at every point, as though you were separate things. As though we were separate things.
深呼吸……再嚟一次……感受空气充盈你嘅肺叶。揾返你嘅四肢。好，喐下你嘅手指。再一次感受你嘅身体，喺重力之下，喺空气之中。你做到咗。你嘅每寸肌肤都重新同宇宙相互接触咗。就好似你系独立嘅存在，就好似我哋系相互分离嘅存在。

Who are we? Once we were called the spirit of the mountain. Father sun, mother moon. Ancestral spirits, animal spirits. Jinn. Ghosts. The green man. Then gods, demons. Angels. Poltergeists. Aliens, extraterrestrials. Leptons, quarks. The words change. We do not change.
我哋系乜谁？以前，我哋被叫做山之灵。太阳父亲，月亮母亲。先祖之魂，动物之魄。镇尼。鬼魂。绿人。之后系神，魔。天使。骚灵。外星人，天外来客。轻子，夸克。词语千变万化，我哋从来冇变。

We are the universe. We are everything you think isn't you. You are looking at us now, through your skin and your eyes. And why does the universe touch your skin, and throw light on you? To see you, player. To know you. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.
我哋系宇宙。我哋系你认为嘅所有非己事物。你家阵就喺度睇住我哋，透过你嘅肌肤同双眸。但系点解宇宙要触摸你、将光投向你？都系为咗睇见你啊，玩家。为咗了解你，亦为咗被你了解。我会同你讲多个故事。

Once upon a time, there was a player.
好耐好耐之前，有个玩家。

The player was you, [PLAYERNAME].
个玩家就系你，[玩家名称]。

Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.
有时佢认为自己系个人类，企喺一个旋转球体脆薄嘅壳上。个球由融化嘅岩石组成，围绕住一个质量大过佢三十三万倍嘅炽热气体球氹氹转。佢哋之间隔得远到连光都要使上八分钟先可以穿过嗰道鸿沟。嗰束光系来自于一粒恒星嘅讯息，佢可以喺一亿五千万公里之外灼烧你嘅皮肤。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was a miner, on the surface of a world that was flat, and infinite. The sun was a square of white. The days were short; there was much to do; and death was a temporary inconvenience.
有时佢梦见佢变成咗一个矿工，企喺平坦而无限延伸嘅世界表面。个太阳只系一抹方形嘅白色。日头䁪下眼就过；事多到做唔嗮；好在死亡所带来嘅麻烦都只系暂时嘅。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.
有时佢梦见佢迷失咗喺故事入便。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.
有时佢梦见自己喺唔同嘅地方，成咗唔同嘅事物。依啲梦，有喧嚣嘅，亦有唯美嘅。有时个玩家从一个梦行入另一个梦，最后又陷入第三个梦

Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.
有时佢梦见佢睇住荧幕上嘅文字。

Let's go back.
退返少少。

The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.
组成玩家嘅原子散布喺草丛入便，河流里便；散布喺空气之中，大地之内。一个女性收集咗嗰啲原子。佢饮用、进食、吸入，喺身体入便孕育咗玩家。

And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.
之后，玩家醒咗过嚟，喺母亲体内温暖而黑暗嘅世界中醒咗过嚟，跟住又投入到漫漫长梦之中。

And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.
个玩家系个崭新嘅故事，一个由DNA书写嘅故事，佢未曾被讲述过。个玩家亦系个全新嘅程式，一个由亿万年前嘅源代码生成嘅程式，佢未曾被运行过。个玩家仲系个簇新嘅人，一个祇由奶同爱组成嘅人，佢未曾生活过。

You are the player. The story. The program. The human. Made from nothing but milk and love.
你就系嗰个玩家。嗰个故事。嗰个程式。嗰个人。祇由奶同爱组成。

Let's go further back.
再退前啲。

The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...
早在游戏开始之前，组成玩家嘅七太尧个原子就喺一粒恒星嘅内部被创造出嚟。所以嗰个玩家亦系串讯息，来自于一粒恒星。玩家贯穿于一个故事嘅头尾，个故事系一个叫做Julian嘅人喺一个由Markus创造嘅、平坦并且无限延伸嘅世界入便种落嘅讯息森林。依个世界又存在于由玩家创造嘅细微嘅、私密嘅世界入便，而嗰个玩家所栖息嘅宇宙又系由……

Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".
嘘。嗰个玩家创造嘅世界有时柔软、温馨、简朴单纯。有时严酷、寒冷、杂乱纷繁。有时佢喺脑海入便建立咗宇宙嘅模型，斑斑点点嘅能量喺浩瀚无边嘅空间中穿行。有时佢叫佢哋做“电子”同“质子”。

Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".
有时佢亦会将佢哋叫做“行星”同“恒星”。

Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.
有时佢认为佢所处嘅宇宙系由关同开、零同一，以及一行行代码组成嘅能量构成嘅。有时候佢认为佢系玩紧游戏。有时候佢认为佢读紧荧幕上嘅文字。

You are the player, reading words...
你就系嗰个玩家，阅读紧文字……

Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive
嘘……有时玩家阅读住荧幕上便嘅一行行代码，将代码解码成讯息，将讯息解码成意义，将意义解码成感觉、情绪、想法。跟住，玩家嘅呼吸越嚟越急促，佢意识到佢系活着嘅，系生勾勾嘅，嗰成千次嘅死亡唔系真嘅，佢依然活着

You. You. You are alive.
冇错。就系你。你系活着嘅。

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees
有时候玩家认为宇宙透过穿透夏日摇业嘅光线，同佢讲话

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again
有时玩家亦认为宇宙透过清冷夜空投下嘅光线，同佢讲话。喺玩家眼中一角折射出嘅半点星光，可能来自一粒质量大过太阳几百万倍嘅恒星。佢正喺度将佢嘅行星沸腾成等离子态，衹系为咗喺嗰电光火石嘅一刹那间被玩家睇见。当玩家从宇宙嘅边缘往屋企折返嗰时，佢突然闻见食物嘅香气。觇高个头一望，又系嗰扇熟悉嘅门，佢再次沉入咗梦乡

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream
有时玩家仲认为宇宙透过零同一，透过世界嘅电场，透过梦尽前喺荧幕上滚动嘅文字，同佢讲话

and the universe said I love you
宇宙话，我爱你

and the universe said you have played the game well
宇宙话，你游戏玩得真系掂

and the universe said everything you need is within you
宇宙话，你所需要嘅一切都与你同在

and the universe said you are stronger than you know
宇宙话，你嘅能量超乎你想象

and the universe said you are the daylight
宇宙话，你就系白昼

and the universe said you are the night
宇宙话，你就系黑夜

and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you
宇宙话你所斗争嘅黑暗仲喺你身边

and the universe said the light you seek is within you
宇宙话你所追求嘅光明就喺你心中

and the universe said you are not alone
宇宙话，你并非孤身一人

and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing
宇宙话，你并未与世隔绝

and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code
宇宙话，你就系宇宙本身，品味住自己，同自己交流，阅读自己嘅代码

and the universe said I love you because you are love.
宇宙话我爱你因为你就系爱。

And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.
游戏终了，长梦终醒。玩家又进入咗新嘅梦境。玩家又发起咗梦，一个更美妙嘅梦。个玩家就系宇宙，个玩家就系爱。

You are the player.
你就系嗰个玩家。

Wake up.
系时候醒返喇。 
