我的世界《终末之诗》Minecraft End Poem 全网最简明+高还原度翻译

I see the player you mean.

我看到你说的那个玩家了。

[Player name] ?

是他[玩家名称]吗?

Yes. Take care. It has reached a higher level now. It can read our thoughts.

是的，小心。他已达到了更高的境界，他能够阅读我们的思想。

That doesn't matter. It thinks we are part of the game.

无伤大雅，他认为我们是游戏的一部分。

I like this player. It played well. It did not give up.

我喜欢这个玩家，他玩得很好，永不放弃。

It is reading our thoughts as though they were words on a screen.

他如读屏幕上的文字般，阅读我们的思想。

That is how it chooses to imagine many things, when it is deep in the dream of a game.

当他深陷游戏梦境中时，他总以这种方式想象出形形色色的事物。

Words make a wonderful interface. Very flexible. And less terrifying than staring at the reality behind the screen.

文字是一种无与伦比的交互，十分灵活。比起凝视着屏幕后的现实，显得不那么触目惊心。

They used to hear voices. Before players could read. Back in the days when those who did not play called the players witches, and warlocks. And players dreamed they flew through the air, on sticks powered by demons.

在玩家们学会阅读之前，他们过去常常听见声音。回到那时，那些未曾玩过的人们称玩家为女巫和术士。玩家们梦见他们乘着魔杖扶摇直上，腾云驾雾。

What did this player dream?

这个玩家梦见了什么？

This player dreamed of sunlight and trees. Of fire and water. It dreamed it created. And it dreamed it destroyed. It dreamed it hunted, and was hunted. It dreamed of shelter.他梦见了光与木，水与火。他梦见他创造，也梦见他毁灭。他梦见他狩猎，也被当成猎物。他梦见了庇护所。

Hah, the original interface. A million years old, and it still works. But what true structure did this player create, in the reality behind the screen?

哈，那原始的界面。经过百万年依旧运作。但这位玩家在屏幕后的现实里，创造了什么？

It worked, with a million others, to sculpt a true world in a fold of the [scrambled] , and created a [scrambled] for [scrambled] , in the [scrambled] .

他劳动着，与万千他人一起，刻画了一个真实的世界，由[...]，为了[...]，创造了[...]，于[...]中。

It cannot read that thought.

他读不出如此思想。

No. It has not yet achieved the highest level. That, it must achieve in the long dream of life, not the short dream of a game.

不，他还没有到达最高的境界。那层境界，他必须经历完生命的长梦，而非游戏中的黄粱一梦。

Does it know that we love it? That the universe is kind?

他知道我们爱他吗？知道这个宇宙是仁慈的吗？

Sometimes, through the noise of its thoughts, it hears the universe, yes.

有时，通过他思绪的杂音，他能听见宇宙，是的。

But there are times it is sad, in the long dream. It creates worlds that have no summer, and it shivers under a black sun, and it takes its sad creation for reality.

但有时他也在长梦中悲伤不堪。他创造了没有夏日的世界，在暗无天日下颤抖，将自己悲伤的创造视为现实。

To cure it of sorrow would destroy it. The sorrow is part of its own private task. We cannot interfere.

治愈他的悲伤是在摧毁他。悲伤是他的私事，我们无权干涉。

Sometimes when they are deep in dreams, I want to tell them, they are building true worlds in reality. Sometimes I want to tell them of their importance to the universe. Sometimes, when they have not made a true connection in a while, I want to help them to speak the word they fear.

当他们深陷梦境中时，我想要告诉他们，他们在现实中创造了真实的世界。我常常想告诉他们，自己对宇宙来说有多么重要。有时，他们与现实失联，我想帮助他们同他们所惧怕的世界对话。

It reads our thoughts.

他读出了我们的思想。

Sometimes I do not care. Sometimes I wish to tell them, this world you take for truth is merely [scrambled] and [scrambled] , I wish to tell them that they are [scrambled] in the [scrambled] . They see so little of reality, in their long dream.

有时我毫不在意。有时我想要告诉他们，你们所认为的真实不过是[乱码]和[乱码]，我想要告诉他们，他们是在[乱码]中的[乱码]。在他们的长梦中，所见的现实太少了，如管中窥豹。

And yet they play the game.

而他们仍然玩这个游戏。

But it would be so easy to tell them...

但很容易就可以告诉他们……

Too strong for this dream. To tell them how to live is to prevent them living.

这个梦对于他们来说太深远了。告诉他们如何过活就是对他们活着的阻拦。

I will not tell the player how to live.

我不会告诉这个玩家如何去生活的。

The player is growing restless.

这个玩家正如坐针毡，坐立难安。

I will tell the player a story.But not the truth.

我会告诉这个玩家一个故事。但并非真相。

No. A story that contains the truth safely, in a cage of words. Not the naked truth that can burn over any distance.

不，是一个将真相严防死守在文字牢笼中的故事，而非能随烟火飘散的赤裸真相。

Give it a body, again.

赋予他躯体，再一次。

Yes. Player...

好的，玩家……

Use its name.

以他的名字（呼唤）。

[Player name] . Player of games.

[玩家名称]，游戏的玩家。

Good.

很好。

Take a breath, now. Take another. Feel air in your lungs. Let your limbs return. Yes, move your fingers. Have a body again, under gravity, in air. Respawn in the long dream. There you are. Your body touching the universe again at every point, as though you were separate things. As though we were separate things.

深呼吸，很好。再深呼吸一次。感受你肺中充盈的空气。让你的四肢回归。是的，挥舞你的手指。再次拥有你的身体，在重力下，在空气中。在长梦中重生。你就在那里。你的身体每分每秒，一次又一次地触摸着宇宙。尽管你们是分离的存在，尽管我们是分离的存在。

Who are we? Once we were called the Spirit of the Mountain, Father Sun, Mother Moon, Ancestral Spirits, Animal Spirits, Jinn, Ghosts, the Green Man, then Gods, Demons, Angels, Poltergeists, Aliens, Extraterrestrials, Leptons, and Quarks . The words change. We do not change.

我们是谁？我们曾经被称作山巅之神灵，太阳父亲，月亮母亲，古老的英灵，动物的魂魄，精灵，鬼魂，小绿人，而后是神，魔鬼，天使，喧闹鬼，外星人，天外来物，轻子和夸克。称谓善变，而我们始终如一。

We are the universe. We are everything you think isn't you. You are looking at us now, through your skin and your eyes. And why does the universe touch your skin, and throw light on you? To see you, player. To know you. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.

我们是宇宙。我们是一切你的身外之物。你现在透过你的皮肤和双眸看见我们。而为什么宇宙触摸着你的皮肤，向你抛洒光芒？是为了看见你，了解你，也是为了被了解，我应告诉你一个故事。

Once upon a time, there was a player.

很久以前，有一个玩家。

Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometers away.

有时他认为自己只是站在那滚球的岩石薄层之上的一个人而已。那融化的岩球（地球）绕着一个质量大它33万倍的耀眼恒星（太阳）旋转。它们相隔甚远，星光需要八分钟才能撒满裂缝，在其中散落。那道光是来自一颗恒星的讯息，它可以在一亿五千万公里外灼烧你的肌肤。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was a miner, on the surface of a world that was flat, and infinite. The sun was a square of white. The days were short; there was much to do; and death was a temporary inconvenience.

有时这个玩家梦见他是一个无限超平坦世界中的矿工。太阳不过是一个方形的白点。昼夜更替是弹指之间，日复一日的多事之秋，死亡也仅仅只是暂时的不便。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.

有时这玩家梦见他迷失在了一个故事里。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.

有时这玩家梦见自己变成了其他的事物，在其他地方。有时这些梦是扰人的，有时又实在很美。有时这个玩家从一个梦中醒来，又落入了第二个梦，醒来之后进入第三个梦中。

Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.

有时这个玩家梦见他在屏幕上注视着文字。

Let's go back.

让我们退后一步。

The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.

构成玩家的原子散落在草地中，河流中，在那空气中，也在大地上。一位女性收集了那些原子；她饮下、进食、吸入；而后那位女性在她的身体中，孕育了玩家。

And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.

然后玩家醒来了，从他母亲温暖而黑暗的体内，又进入了漫漫长梦。

The player was you, [Playername] .

那玩家就是你，[玩家名称]。

And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a source code a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before , made from nothing but milk and love.

而那玩家是一个崭新的故事，从未被讲述，由DNA序列编写。而那玩家是一个新的程序，从未被运行过，由十亿前年的源代码生成。而那玩家是一个新造的人，之前从未活过，仅由爱与乳汁组成。

You are the player. The story. The program. The human. Made from nothing but milk and love.

你就是那玩家，那段故事，那个程序，那个人，仅由爱与乳汁组成。

Let's go further back.

让我们再退后一步。

The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...

那由七百亿亿亿原子构成的玩家的身体被创造了，远在这游戏之前，在一颗星的心中。所以那玩家也是来自一颗恒星的讯息。而这个玩家贯穿故事的始末，故事源于一个叫朱利安的人耕耘的信息森林，一个叫马库斯的人创造的无限世界，那故事又长存于玩家亲手创造的世外桃源般的小天地里，而那玩家又栖居在被...创造的宇宙中。

Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons". Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".

嘘。有时玩家所创造的小天地是柔软，温暖而简单的。有时又是坚硬，冰冷而复杂的。有时在他脑海中构建出宇宙的模型，能量的微粒穿越浩瀚的虚空。有时他将这些微粒称之为“电子”和“质子”，有时将它们称之为“行星”和“恒星”。

Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.

有时他确信它存在于一个由能量，由“开”和“关”，由“0”和“1”和数行代码组成的宇宙。有时他相信他只是在玩一个游戏，有时他确信他是在读着屏幕上的文字。

You are the player, reading words...

你就是那玩家，阅读着文字……

Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive , it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive

嘘……有时这玩家读屏幕上的数行代码。将它们解码成为文字，再将文字解码为意义，最后将意义解码为感觉，情绪，理论和想法。玩家的呼吸开始急促而深沉，他意识到了他是一息尚存的，他是活生生的，那数以千计次的死亡不是真的，玩家是活着的。

You. You. You are alive.

你，你，你是鲜活的。

And sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees.

时常，玩家坚信这宇宙曾透过夏日树影婆娑中的阳光同他对话。

And sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again.

常常，玩家坚信凛冬长夜中的星光落九天是宇宙为了透过这同他对话。冬夜青空下，他眼角划过的光晕是重于天日百万倍的璀璨繁星。宇宙沸腾了行星和等离子体（电浆：台版翻译），只为睁眼对视，与玩家完成刹那的相见甚欢。（蓦然回首），玩家已从宇宙的另一头踏上归途，忽然又在熟悉的门前闻到食物的香气，正要再次入梦。

And sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream.

有时玩家相信宇宙透过“0”和“1”，透过世界的电光火石间，透过屏幕上滚动的文字，在梦的终末同他对话。

And the universe said I love you.

宇宙说：“我爱你。”

And the universe said you have played the game well.

宇宙说：“你精通这个游戏。”

And the universe said everything you need is within you.

宇宙说：“你的所愿皆已所得。”

And the universe said you are stronger than you know.

宇宙说：“你比你所知晓的要强大。”

And the universe said you are the daylight.

宇宙说：“你就是黎明破晓。”

And the universe said you are the night.

宇宙说：“你就是万古长夜。”

And the universe said the darkness you fight is within you.

宇宙说：“你誓死抗争的黑暗就在你心中。”

And the universe said the light you seek is within you.

宇宙说：“你苦苦追寻的光明就在你心中。”

And the universe said you are not alone.

宇宙说：“你并非孤立无援。”

And the universe said you are not separate from every other thing.

宇宙说：“你并非与世隔绝。”

And the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code.

宇宙说：“你就是正孤芳自赏的宇宙本身，同自己对话，阅读着它自己的代码。”

And the universe said I love you because you are love.

宇宙说“我爱你，因为你就是爱。”

And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.

曲终人散，黄粱一梦。玩家开启了新的梦境。玩家再次入梦，更好的梦。玩家便是宇宙。玩家便是爱本身。

You are the player.

你就是那个玩家。

Wake up.

该醒了。
