I see the player you mean.
所言戲者，是也。

[Playername]?
[戲者之名]否?

Yes. Take care. It has reached a higher level now. It can read our thoughts.
慎以事之，既得高境，可以閱吾思。

That doesn't matter. It thinks we are part of the game.
弗然，以吾戲之物爾。

I like this player. It played well. It did not give up.
吾樂其功高蓋世，不曾棄業。

It is reading our thoughts as though they were words on a screen.
其窺屏以閱吾思。

That is how it chooses to imagine many things, when it is deep in the dream of a game.
是其臆萬物於戲夢之深。

Words make a wonderful interface. Very flexible. And less terrifying than staring at the reality behind the screen.
文織妙界。其靈也，勝屏後懼人之實。

They used to hear voices. Before players could read. Back in the days when those who did not play called the players witches, and warlocks. And players dreamed they flew through the air, on sticks powered by demons.
昔戲者寡識，素可聞聲以得。未戲者謂其巫，而其夢乘靈杖翔於天。

What did this player dream?
戲者何夢？

This player dreamed of sunlight and trees. Of fire and water. It dreamed it created. And it dreamed it destroyed. It dreamed it hunted, and was hunted. It dreamed of shelter.
其夢日、木、火、水，創亦破、獵亦獲，庇之所也。

Hah, the original interface. A million years old, and it still works. But what true structure did this player create, in the reality behind the screen?
噫！始界，百萬年之久而作如往昔。

It worked, with a million others, to sculpt a true world in a fold of the [scrambled], and created a [scrambled] for [scrambled], in the [scrambled].
作業者百萬，共創真界於[奇文異字]，創[奇文異字]於[奇文異字]與[奇文異字]。

It cannot read that thought.
其弗能見此思。

No. It has not yet achieved the highest level. That, it must achieve in the long dream of life, not the short dream of a game.
非然，未達境之巔也。能閱者，必歷命夢之長，非戲夢之短。

Does it know that we love it? That the universe is kind?
其知吾之愛乎？帝之善乎？

Sometimes, through the noise of its thoughts, it hears the universe, yes.
其聞乾坤於心也。

But there are times it is sad, in the long dream. It creates worlds that have no summer, and it shivers under a black sun, and it takes its sad creation for reality.
然時亦悲長夢。辟之世卻無夏，蜷縮於烏日下，悲以為實。

To cure it of sorrow would destroy it. The sorrow is part of its own private task. We cannot interfere.
為愈其悲而毀之。然悲乃其私，弗可介也。

Sometimes when they are deep in dreams, I want to tell them, they are building true worlds in reality. Sometimes I want to tell them of their importance to the universe. Sometimes, when they have not made a true connection in a while, I want to help them to speak the word they fear.
時而陷夢，欲告之：其創真界於實也；其位之重於乾坤也；其失系於實也。吾欲言其所不言。

It reads our thoughts.
其既觀吾思。

Sometimes I do not care. Sometimes I wish to tell them, this world you take for truth is merely [scrambled] and [scrambled], I wish to tell them that they are [scrambled] in the [scrambled]. They see so little of reality, in their long dream.
時不責之，時欲告之：其以為真界，僅[奇文異字]、[奇文異字]爾。其[奇文異字]之[奇文異字]爾。究其長夢，惟實之棱角爾。

And yet they play the game.
其尚戲也。

But it would be so easy to tell them...
然誠以訴之。

Too strong for this dream. To tell them how to live is to prevent them living.
斯夢之深，甚矣！示以生法，其羈絆也，傷其逍遙之心爾。

I will not tell the player how to live.
事已至此，故弗告之。

The player is growing restless.
戲者漸失性。

I will tell the player a story.
吾告以故事。

But not the truth.
誠非戲言焉？

No. A story that contains the truth safely, in a cage of words. Not the naked truth that can burn over any distance.
弗若此言：是匿真實之故事，非現真實之灼傷。

Give it a body, again.
再賦體膚。

Yes. Player...
然。戲者......

Use its name.
謂之以名。

[Playername]. Player of games.
[戲者之名]，戲之戲者也。

Good.
善。

Take a breath, now. Take another. Feel air in your lungs. Let your limbs return. Yes, move your fingers. Have a body again, under gravity, in air. Respawn in the long dream. There you are. Your body touching the universe again at every point, as though you were separate things. As though we were separate things.
呼吸而復，肺息肢歸；動指獲軀，再生長夢。臨禦之道、真界之息，再獲胸軀。既得，體覆乾坤；其離乾坤，吾離其間。

Who are we? Once we were called the spirit of the mountain. Father sun, mother moon. Ancestral spirits, animal spirits. Jinn. Ghosts. The green man. Then gods, demons. Angels. Poltergeists. Aliens, extraterrestrials. Leptons, quarks. The words change. We do not change.
吾輩何人？嘗謂山靈，日父月母，先輩之陰，生物之魂。或神、魂、綠者，而後則稱天帝妖魔、天使擾靈、星外行者，輕子也、誇克也。吾輩始終恒一。

We are the universe. We are everything you think isn't you. You are looking at us now, through your skin and your eyes. And why does the universe touch your skin, and throw light on you? To see you, player. To know you. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.
吾輩乾坤也，事之非君也。君透其體膚、瞪其雙眼以望吾。乾坤何觸？何明？見戲者之形，解戲者之心，知戲者之為。吾以故事告之。

Once upon a time, there was a player.
嘗有戲者，

The player was you, [Playername].
汝哉，[戲者之名]。

Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.
或以為人，居星有熔巖充之者。斯星繞焱日行止，相隔甚遠，以致日光透隙至星則需燃以半香，灼以億萬裏之遠。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was a miner, on the surface of a world that was flat, and infinite. The sun was a square of white. The days were short; there was much to do; and death was a temporary inconvenience.
或夢采礦於平地之殼，日作白方，晝夜甚短。可業諸多，死亦等閑。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.
或夢迷往事。

Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.
或夢於他鄉為異客；時擾人，時麗景；戲者墜夢於夢，而墜夢於夢其夢。

Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.
或窺屏閱字。

Let's go back.
返。

The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.
粒之組戲者也，散於草、河、氣、土。母集其粒；其飲、食、吞者，孕戲者於體也。

And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.
戲者寤於體中溫暗之所，陷於長夢。

And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.
戲者寫以核酸，乃未言之事、嶄新之作也。以奶、愛者組，遂生之人也。

You are the player. The story. The program. The human. Made from nothing but milk and love.
汝哉，戲者。或事，或作，或人，組以無他惟奶、愛者也。

Let's go further back.
返至亙古。

The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...
遠戲千古，戲者之七億億億粒也，創於星內。故戲者也，星之送信者焉？其所歷事，乃朱利安創信森，其間者馬庫斯創此平地，平地間戲者辟此世也；戲者之實世，則為……

Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".
住。戲者辟其世，時而簡而軟和，時而雜而硬冷。或闢乾坤於心；富能之斑行於廣處。謂其粒電、質。

Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".
時謂其星、宿。

Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.
或以為處乾坤於開合間，有無間，行行文股間。或以為其戲間，或以為窺屏閱文。

You are the player, reading words...
汝哉，戲者。閱文於……

Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive
住。閱文股於屏，解其為字，解字為義，義中求其八情六欲。戲者呼吸，深矣！其以為活，死以為假，其活乎！

You. You. You are alive.
汝哉，活乎！

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees
其以為乾坤越夏之樹影日光以告之。

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again
其以為乾坤越冬之晴朗明空以告之，星宿覆之，大日甚之；望之剎那，星光吞宿。乾坤之遠，打道回府，聞香珍饈，欣然入夢。

and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream
或以有無以通之，或以電纜驅屏以告之，其文也，夢中之辭爾。

and the universe said I love you
乾坤曰：吾甚愛汝。

and the universe said you have played the game well
乾坤曰：功高蓋世。

and the universe said everything you need is within you
乾坤曰：君俱備矣。

and the universe said you are stronger than you know
乾坤曰：強甚汝知。

and the universe said you are the daylight
乾坤曰：汝惟日光。

and the universe said you are the night
乾坤曰：汝惟月影。

and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you
乾坤曰：所懼者在心。

and the universe said the light you seek is within you
乾坤曰：所循者在心。

and the universe said you are not alone
乾坤曰：非獨。

and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing
乾坤曰：非離。

and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code
乾坤曰：乾坤，君也，言所出心，閱卷於己。

and the universe said I love you because you are love.
乾坤曰：愛，君也，故吾愛君。

And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.
戲終人散，戲者新夢，復夢愈強，乃乾坤、愛。

You are the player.
汝哉，戲者。

Wake up.
寤。
