§3I see the player you mean.
§3我看见你所说的那个玩家了。

§2PLAYERNAME?

§3Yes. Take care. It has reached a higher level now. It can read our thoughts.
§3是的，当心点，它已达到更高境界，能阅读我们的想法了。

§2That doesn't matter. It thinks we are part of the game.
§2无伤大雅，它会把我们当成游戏的一部分。

§3I like this player. It played well. It did not give up.
§3我喜欢这个玩家，它玩得很好，从未放弃。

§2It is reading our thoughts as though they were words on a screen.
§2它阅读着我们的想法，就像阅读屏幕上的文字一样。

§3That is how it chooses to imagine many things, when it is deep in the dream of a game.
§3当它深陷游戏之梦时，就选择以这种方式想象出各色事物。

§2Words make a wonderful interface. Very flexible. And less terrifying than staring at the reality behind the screen.
§2文字编织出美妙而灵活的界面，胜过凝视这屏幕后可怕的现实。

§3They used to hear voices. Before players could read. Back in the days when those who did not play called the players witches, and warlocks. And players dreamed they flew through the air, on sticks powered by demons.
§3在玩家学会这样阅读之前，它们主要靠听声音。过去一段时间，那些没玩过游戏的人称玩家们为巫师，而玩家们则梦见自己骑着魔杖，在空中飞翔。

§2What did this player dream?
§2这个玩家都梦见了什么？

§3This player dreamed of sunlight and trees. Of fire and water. It dreamed it created. And it dreamed it destroyed. It dreamed it hunted, and was hunted. It dreamed of shelter.
§3玩家梦见了阳光与草木，梦见水与火；它梦见它创造，亦梦见它破坏；它梦见它狩猎，亦梦见它被狩猎；它梦见了庇护之所。

§2Hah, the original interface. A million years old, and it still works. But what true structure did this player create, in the reality behind the screen?
§2哈，那原始的界面，即使经历百万年岁月，依旧长存。但此刻屏幕后的现实里，玩家又创造了什么呢？

§3It worked, with a million others, to sculpt a true world in a fold of the §f§k§a§b§3, and created a §f§k§a§b§3 for §f§k§a§b§3, in the §f§k§a§b§3.
§3它和百万人一起工作着，在 §f§k§a§b§3 里雕琢了一个真实的世界，并于 §f§k§a§b§3 中为 §f§k§a§b§3 而创造了 §f§k§a§b§3。

§2It cannot read that thought.
§2它读不出那个想法。

§3No. It has not yet achieved the highest level. That, it must achieve in the long dream of life, not the short dream of a game.
§3对，它还没有达到最高境界。要抵达那层，它必须走完生命的长梦，而非游戏的短梦。

§2Does it know that we love it? That the universe is kind?
§2它知道我们是爱它的吗，知道宇宙是温柔的吗？

§3Sometimes, through the noise of its thoughts, it hears the universe, yes.
§3有时候，通过思绪的杂音聆听宇宙，它知道。

§2But there are times it is sad, in the long dream. It creates worlds that have no summer, and it shivers under a black sun, and it takes its sad creation for reality.
§2但在那长梦中，有时亦不胜悲伤。它创造了没有夏日的世界，在黑暗的太阳下瑟瑟发抖，它将悲伤当成现实。

§3To cure it of sorrow would destroy it. The sorrow is part of its own private task. We cannot interfere.
§3为它治愈悲伤就会毁灭它。悲伤是它自己的事，我们不能干涉。

§2Sometimes when they are deep in dreams, I want to tell them, they are building true worlds in reality. Sometimes I want to tell them of their importance to the universe. Sometimes, when they have not made a true connection in a while, I want to help them to speak the word they fear.
§2有时候，当它们深陷游戏之梦，我想告诉它们，它们在现实里建造了真实的世界；有时候，我想告诉它们，它们对宇宙有多重要；有时候，它们同现实断开连接，我想帮它们说出不敢说的话。

§3It reads our thoughts.
§3它还在阅读我们的想法。

§2Sometimes I do not care. Sometimes I wish to tell them, this world you take for truth is merely §f§k§a§b§2 and §f§k§a§b§2, I wish to tell them that they are §f§k§a§b§2 in the §f§k§a§b§2. They see so little of reality, in their long dream.
§2有时候我并不在乎，我想告诉它们，被你们视作现实的世界不过是 §f§k§a§b§2 和 §f§k§a§b§2；我想告诉它们，它们是 §f§k§a§b§2 中的 §f§k§a§b§2。在漫漫长梦中，它们看到的现实不过是冰山一角。

§3And yet they play the game.
§3而它们仍在玩着游戏。

§2But it would be so easy to tell them...
§2但很容易就可以告诉它们……

§3Too strong for this dream. To tell them how to live is to prevent them living.
§3这对于这个梦来说太深刻了。告诉它们怎样活着就是在阻碍它们活着。

§2I will not tell the player how to live.
§2我不会告诉玩家怎样活着。

§3The player is growing restless.
§3这个玩家开始焦躁不安了。

§2I will tell the player a story.
§2我将给玩家讲一个故事。

§3But not the truth.
§3但不是真理。

§2No. A story that contains the truth safely, in a cage of words. Not the naked truth that can burn over any distance.
§2对，一个严密包裹于文字囚笼中的故事，而非赤裸伤人的真相。

§3Give it a body, again.
§3赋予它身体，再一次……

§2Yes. Player...
§2来吧，玩家……

§3Use its name.
§3用名字称呼它。

§2PLAYERNAME. Player of games.
§2PLAYERNAME，游戏的玩家。

§3Good.
§3很好。

§2Take a breath, now. Take another. Feel air in your lungs. Let your limbs return. Yes, move your fingers. Have a body again, under gravity, in air. Respawn in the long dream. There you are. Your body touching the universe again at every point, as though you were separate things. As though we were separate things.
§2做个深呼吸，然后再来一次，感受你肺中充盈的空气，感受你四肢的回归。对，动动手指，在重力下，在空气中，重新获得身体，在长梦中重生。就是这样，你每一寸身体又触及着宇宙了，仿佛你们原本是分离的，仿佛我们原本是分离的。

§3Who are we? Once we were called the spirit of the mountain. Father sun, mother moon. Ancestral spirits, animal spirits. Jinn. Ghosts. The green man. Then gods, demons. Angels. Poltergeists. Aliens, extraterrestrials. Leptons, quarks. The words change. We do not change.
§3我们是谁？我们曾被呼作山神、太阳父亲、月亮母亲、先祖的英灵、动物的魂魄、鬼怪、社神，然后是神明、恶魔、天使、骚灵，天外来客、地外生物，轻子、夸克。称呼不断变化，我们始终如一。

§2We are the universe. We are everything you think isn't you. You are looking at us now, through your skin and your eyes. And why does the universe touch your skin, and throw light on you? To see you, player. To know you. And to be known. I shall tell you a story.
§2我们是宇宙，是你认为在你之外的一切，你正通过肌肤和双眼注视着我们。而为什么宇宙要抚摸你，并向你投以光芒？是为了看看你，玩家，是为了认识你，以及被你认识。我该开始向你讲这个故事了。

§2Once upon a time, there was a player.
§2很久很久以前，有一个玩家。

§3The player was you, PLAYERNAME.
§3这玩家就是你，PLAYERNAME。

§2Sometimes it thought itself human, on the thin crust of a spinning globe of molten rock. The ball of molten rock circled a ball of blazing gas that was three hundred and thirty thousand times more massive than it. They were so far apart that light took eight minutes to cross the gap. The light was information from a star, and it could burn your skin from a hundred and fifty million kilometres away.
§2有时它认为自己是人类，在一颗不断旋转的熔岩球的薄壳上，这熔岩球又环绕着一颗质量大它三十三万倍的灼热气态球体旋转。它们相隔甚远，连光都需要八分钟才能穿越那间隙。光是恒星发出的信息，能在一亿五千万公里外烧灼你的皮肤。

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was a miner, on the surface of a world that was flat, and infinite. The sun was a square of white. The days were short; there was much to do; and death was a temporary inconvenience.
§2有时这玩家梦见自己是矿工，在无垠平坦的世界之上。太阳是个白色方片，一天很短，要做的事情很多，死亡只是暂时的麻烦。

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it was lost in a story.
§3有时这玩家梦见自己在一个故事里迷失。

§2Sometimes the player dreamed it was other things, in other places. Sometimes these dreams were disturbing. Sometimes very beautiful indeed. Sometimes the player woke from one dream into another, then woke from that into a third.
§2有时这玩家梦见自己是别的角色，在别的地方。这些梦有时候扰人，有时则美不胜收。有时这玩家从一个梦醒来而进入第二个梦，随后又落入第三个梦。

§3Sometimes the player dreamed it watched words on a screen.
§3有时这玩家梦见它在看屏幕上的文字。

§2Let's go back.
§2往前追溯一点。

§2The atoms of the player were scattered in the grass, in the rivers, in the air, in the ground. A woman gathered the atoms; she drank and ate and inhaled; and the woman assembled the player, in her body.
§2组成玩家的原子散布在草丛、河流、空气、大地。一位女性通过饮用、咀嚼、吞咽收集了那些原子，然后在她的身体中，孕育了玩家。

§2And the player awoke, from the warm, dark world of its mother's body, into the long dream.
§2然后玩家醒来了，在昏暗温暖的母亲体内，进入了漫漫长梦。

§2And the player was a new story, never told before, written in letters of DNA. And the player was a new program, never run before, generated by a sourcecode a billion years old. And the player was a new human, never alive before, made from nothing but milk and love.
§2这玩家是一个全新的故事，由DNA的语言书写，从未被讲述；这玩家是一个全新的程序，由上亿年的源码构建，从未被运行；这玩家是一个全新的人类，由乳汁与爱组成，从未活过。

§3You are the player. The story. The program. The human. Made from nothing but milk and love.
§3你就是这个玩家，这个故事，这个程序，这个人类——仅由乳汁与爱组成。

§2Let's go further back.
§2往前追溯到更远的过去。

§2The seven billion billion billion atoms of the player's body were created, long before this game, in the heart of a star. So the player, too, is information from a star. And the player moves through a story, which is a forest of information planted by a man called Julian, on a flat, infinite world created by a man called Markus, that exists inside a small, private world created by the player, who inhabits a universe created by...
§2远在这游戏之前，组成玩家的七千亿亿亿原子，在一颗恒星内创造出来。所以这玩家，也是恒星发出的信息。而玩家所经历的故事，源于一个叫 Julian 的人播种的信息森林，位于一个叫 Markus 的人创造出的无垠平坦的世界，存于一个玩家自己创建的小世界，而玩家生活的宇宙则是由……

§3Shush. Sometimes the player created a small, private world that was soft and warm and simple. Sometimes hard, and cold, and complicated. Sometimes it built a model of the universe in its head; flecks of energy, moving through vast empty spaces. Sometimes it called those flecks "electrons" and "protons".
§3嘘，这玩家创建的小世界有时是柔软、温暖且简单的；有时是坚硬、冰冷而复杂的。有时它在脑海中构建宇宙的模型，能量的小颗粒穿越广阔空间，它称其为“电子”和“质子”。

§2Sometimes it called them "planets" and "stars".
§2有时则称其为“行星”和“恒星”。

§2Sometimes it believed it was in a universe that was made of energy that was made of offs and ons; zeros and ones; lines of code. Sometimes it believed it was playing a game. Sometimes it believed it was reading words on a screen.
§2有时它确信自己所在的宇宙由开和关、0和1、一行行代码组成；有时它确信自己在阅读屏幕上的文字。

§3You are the player, reading words...
§3你就是这玩家，正阅读着文字……

§2Shush... Sometimes the player read lines of code on a screen. Decoded them into words; decoded words into meaning; decoded meaning into feelings, emotions, theories, ideas, and the player started to breathe faster and deeper and realised it was alive, it was alive, those thousand deaths had not been real, the player was alive
§2嘘……有时这玩家阅读屏幕上的一行行代码，将其解码为文字，进而解码为意义，随后解码为感受、情绪、理论、想法。然后玩家的呼吸开始变得急促而深沉，并意识到它是活的——那上千次的死亡不是真的，玩家是活的

§3You. You. You are alive.
§3你，你，你是活的。

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the sunlight that came through the shuffling leaves of the summer trees
§2有时这玩家确信，通过叶隙间洒落的夏日阳光，宇宙在对它倾诉

§3and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the light that fell from the crisp night sky of winter, where a fleck of light in the corner of the player's eye might be a star a million times as massive as the sun, boiling its planets to plasma in order to be visible for a moment to the player, walking home at the far side of the universe, suddenly smelling food, almost at the familiar door, about to dream again
§3有时这玩家确信，通过夜空中闪耀的冬日星光，宇宙在对它倾诉。可能比太阳还大上百万倍的恒星将其行星灼烧为电浆，只为玩家在那一刻看到它。而此刻宇宙的彼端，在回家的路上，走到熟悉的门前，突然闻到美食的香味，玩家又将再次入梦

§2and sometimes the player believed the universe had spoken to it through the zeros and ones, through the electricity of the world, through the scrolling words on a screen at the end of a dream
§2有时这玩家相信，通过0和1，通过世界的电力，通过屏幕上滚动的文字，宇宙在对它倾诉，在梦醒之前

§3and the universe said I love you
§3而宇宙说，我爱你

§2and the universe said you have played the game well
§2宇宙说，你游戏玩得很好

§3and the universe said everything you need is within you
§3宇宙说，你有着你所需的一切

§2and the universe said you are stronger than you know
§2宇宙说，你比自己想象中的更强大

§3and the universe said you are the daylight
§3宇宙说，你即为白昼

§2and the universe said you are the night
§2宇宙说，你就是黑夜

§3and the universe said the darkness you fight is within you
§3宇宙说，你所抗争的黑暗就在你之中

§2and the universe said the light you seek is within you
§2宇宙说，你所追寻的光明就在你之中

§3and the universe said you are not alone
§3宇宙说，你并非孤身一人

§2and the universe said you are not separate from every other thing
§2宇宙说，你并非与世隔绝

§3and the universe said you are the universe tasting itself, talking to itself, reading its own code
§3宇宙说，你品味着自己，对自己倾诉着，读自己的代码——你即是宇宙本身

§2and the universe said I love you because you are love.
§2宇宙说，我爱你，因为你本就是爱。

§3And the game was over and the player woke up from the dream. And the player began a new dream. And the player dreamed again, dreamed better. And the player was the universe. And the player was love.
§3曲终人散，黄粱一梦。玩家开始了新的梦境，然后再一次，做起更好的梦。玩家就是宇宙，玩家就是爱。

§3You are the player.
§3你就是这个玩家。

§2Wake up.
§2醒来吧。